When you think of a holiday, what images come to mind?
If you had asked me this question a year ago, I may might described glamorous destinations with exotic landscapes and exciting adventures and, of course, a hefty price tag.
However, what if I told you that some of the most enjoyable holidays can be experienced without the price tag, many without even leaving the country? The truth of the matter is that holidays do no need to be far away to be enjoyable, and they certainly do not need to be expensive.

Last summer, instead of spending a small fortune on a holiday abroad, we decided to drive to Cornwall and spend the summer there. It rained half the time, and it certainly couldn't be considered *luxury*. But the end result? It was one of the best holidays we've had. We had long walks along the beach, hiked through forests and visited stunning villages. And we didn't spend a month's earnings on the holiday.

Travel scientist Eva Johnson at the University of Birmingham asserts that "local getaways are often more relaxing thn far-away holidays. They're less stressful to plan, easier on the wallet and still deliver the one thing a holiday should deliver: a peaceful place to forget about the realities of everyday life." And she's right; nobody wants to spend hours in a stuffy airport queue when one could already be enjoying a relaxing camping holiday in a local campsite. Local holidays are simply more relaxing.

Local travel isn't only better for your mental health; there's a positive effect on the environment too. Air travel is one of the leading causes of emissions globally, and experts say that swapping flight travel for local trips reduces the carbon footprint of a holiday by, on average, 74%. With a global issue as threatening to our lives as climate change, actions such as local holidays make a huge difference.

Interestingly, a recent study conducted by the Holiday Appreciation and Satisfaction Committee (HASC) found that 58% of people feel *more* relaxed after a local holiday than they do from an international holiday. This shows that local holidays are not only as relaxing, but in fact more relaxing than holidays abroad. Why? Because holidays are not about spending large quantities of money, elaborate activities and fancy hotels, but rather the break from everyday life and the relaxation that brings. So the next time you consider travelling abroad, just remember that local travel can be just as relaxing as international travel, without the headache and the price tag.
